i know people are going to be asking why
is the smartest man in the world living
on a farm
in the middle of missouri
[Music]
welcome to my extremely ethereal and
trippy new set i feel as though i am
floating in a cloud here in this
all-white venue and perhaps that is
fitting
for this first interview in a series of
much longer much more in-depth
interviews i'm so excited that my first
guest is christopher langan the smartest
man in the world
i do not say that as a subjective
statement or to flatter chris i mean
that in as technical a way as possible
chris has one of if not the highest iq
ever recorded somewhere between 100 90
195 and 210
and chris is not here by way of some
fancy distinguished professorship at
such and such brand name university nor
did chris just get off of his private
yacht
out of the south of france and come here
to leave his billion dollar company
chris came here
from a farm in missouri after a career
as a bouncer at bars around new york
chris
thank you very much for coming on thank
you for inviting me michael i first
stumbled onto you when i was 18 years
old freshman in college and
listen i barely got out of high school
math i barely got out of calculus so i
got out of high school myself
that's a good point
but i said this guy he's saying things
that are really really interesting and
so i want to learn more i've wanted to
talk to you ever since then i know that
before we get into
metaphysics the existence of god free
will politics culture and everything in
between
i know people are going to be asking
why is the smartest man in the world
why is he not just buying and selling
all of us all the time why is it why is
he living on a farm
in the middle of missouri
well that's a good question and it's
that i was never actually interested in
money when i was a
when i was a kid we my brothers and i my
family we were not exactly the richest
folks in town
we seldom had enough money to buy you
know food or
clothes
and so i sort of immersed myself in in
books and reading and decided that what
i wanted to do was pursue knowledge it
costs you nothing to pursue knowledge
really i provided you you can sustain
yourself while you're in pursuit of it
so that's what i did i simply focused
myself on i want to know the truth about
reality i want to know you know what
kind of world it is that i'm living in
and that's what i that's what i went for
now as far as the making money is
concerned one thing that i found out is
that there are certain ingredients uh
certain certain advantages that you need
in order to become rich of course it
helps to be born with money that's the
use also that's the easiest way and it
helps to have a lot of connections yeah
okay the right kind of connections and
it helps not to alienate the people who
have all the money because then they'll
exclude you and cancel you you know
that's what they do that's what canceled
culture is basically people are being
frozen out of the economy
okay and i found myself getting frozen
out of the economy that way from an
early age i mean i was you know i tried
to go to college but uh ran into a
couple of problems personnel problems on
the faculties of the colleges in
question and that stopped me you know
that basically when you get you know
when you you you can't get a college
education you are canceled economically
presumably though you
you know you show up to college
even though you've got a tough
upbringing and you know not not any real
advantages in terms of family or society
but
you're obviously you've got a higher iq
than anybody in the room you're
obviously extremely smart you're
extremely self-educated so you get into
college it should be
a total breeze for you well it was a
total breeze
for me too much of a breeze for me you
know you ask the wrong kinds of
questions of people who are full of
themselves and think they have all the
answers
you know like you know in a calculus
class you know say well you know why
don't you explain exactly how what an
infinite decimal interval is and how you
can traverse from one end to the other
and you know they'll look at you as
though you've got two heads i ask that
all the time
i ask my waiters i yeah well i got a
very poor reaction out of that there was
a there was a
math instructor in an albert license
ring i think who decided that i must be
absolutely
brain dead i mean i went and went into
his office you know
this guy was a very strange character
he's about six and a half feet tall
he'd come into class you know everybody
would be waiting there for him he'd make
a late entrance you know be waiting for
10-15 minutes he'd walk in right with a
this great big stack of mimeograph
sheets and then he'd hand out you know
walk around the room methodically
handing out these sheets
to all of the students and everybody
would have a sheet in front of them then
he'd walk up to the room and and symbol
for symbol
everything that was written on the
sheets would appear on the blackboard
then he'd turn around and walk out
now finally i i you know i thought what
you know i was having a hard time with
this there were certain things that i
you know didn't quite understand how he
was
why he was doing them the way he was
so i kept on trying to track him down to
his office he was never in his office
you know i would wait in the hall for
you know hours and hours for this guy i
never showed up finally i caught him in
his office
and i said hi professor licen ring can i
come in
well i'm really kind of busy right now
and i well yeah i i just wanted to ask
you one question you know how why do you
do this why are you taking a set
theoretic approach
to the calculus like this you know i
mean
they don't seem to be compatible you
know on the one hand you know the
calculus deals with change whereas sets
are static things why are you state why
are you taking this particular
approach to it
and he looks at me and he's you know
asperger's victim right yeah and he
looks at me looks down his thing he says
well you know some people just don't
have the mental firepower to be
mathematicians
well what was i supposed to do
hit the guy i wanted it right right but
he says something that's sort of
pathetic almost to say but it is it is
pathetic but it basically told me a lot
about how he sees the world how he sees
other people i don't want to take a
course from a guy like that yeah you
know and it offended me because i was
you know i've been a poor kid i just
came off a ranch i've been working all
summer punching cows you know and uh and
there i was you know i met all these
there was a bunch of hippies in there
right basically new york hippies
uh
no i won't call them hippies these are
basically affluent kids from new york
the place where i went was basically
that was the client that was the
clientele that was a student body right
and they all couldn't you know they were
constantly talking asking questions
bright for the most part but i felt like
a fish out of water right it was culture
shock for me yeah you know what is this
you know i'm i'm used to you know being
around a bunch of uh you know hay seeds
yeah cowboys you know punching cows you
know going to the you know bar at night
or whatever drinking beer and uh there
was nothing like that these kids are
sitting around smoking pot you know
doing drugs you know psychedelics now
just to clarify when he says not
everyone has the power to be a
mathematician
was was this an admission
of his own failure to explain his
process
he's calling you stupid yes wow he was
claiming that i didn't have the
intellectual firepower
to be a mathematician or at least that's
the way i interpret it yeah and because
i was used to being slighted in that way
i mean you know i kind of grew up in a
rough and tumble if people feel
intellectually threatened by you you get
a lot of this kind of thing so i i
assumed that that's what was happening
and i've never seen never heard anything
after that that would lead me to believe
anything different so
so you leave college presumably you're
much more intelligent than
anyone that you're going to meet on the
faculty or in the students so you leave
college what is it about
being a
bar bouncer what what is it about that
that physical activity because
presumably even without a college degree
you could have done some middling paper
pushing job and it probably wouldn't
have been very lucrative or fulfilling
for you
but presumably you could have done
something like that instead of a
tough physical potentially dangerous job
like you're being a bouncer
could have but there are certain there
are certain problems that you know i
can't
for example when i was in new york i got
a job in a grommet factory
okay it was stimson gromits
you know you had grumman aircraft there
you know they got military defense
contracts i think they were working on
f-16s at one point
and then there's a you know there was
simpson grommets which produced these
aircraft rivets for these airplanes and
i had this machine and man the the sound
the noise from this machine wham wham
wham no hearing protection no nothing
was issued to anybody yeah and i started
you know like losing my hearing and
and so forth and i figured well i can't
stand this anymore i got to get out of
here so i was about to leave but i had a
girlfriend and she said no i want you to
stay so i figured okay let me see if i
can get out of the kind of job so i took
the civil service exam and was offered a
job by the irs
and that of course was a moral dilemma
yeah that's what i had worse than
exactly exactly how awful do i want to
be as a person you know
and i decided that i needed to go home
anyway yeah so i went back to montana at
that point
um but
basically then what i found out well
i went back to new york when i was in my
late 20s
that's when i started doing the bar
bouncing thing right but and i wasn't
making that much money i was working for
forty dollars a night coming out of
there bloody you know with rip shirts
ripped off my back you couldn't i
couldn't even pay for the shirts
you know right that i was making so i
figured okay what i'll do is i'll take
the civil service exam again
now this is i don't want to sound
insensitive but at that point in new
york there was a a protocol whereby you
take the civil service exam and if you
are a minority if you are non-white you
get
30 extra points yeah but this
there's nothing insensitive this is just
a fact i mean it's the fact of our laws
of fact they've been doing it for a long
time it's called affirmative action of
course
and uh when that happens you know and
i'm applying to be say a police officer
right and uh all of these other guys
these non-white guys are you know
looking also to be police officers
you learn that there's a a line of 3 000
guys in front of you this is so then you
give up your idea of being a police
officer and you give up your idea of
ever succeeding getting a job on the
basis of a civil service exam now they
do have you know white police officers
in new york but almost all those guys
are connected they've got some kind of
uncle or acquaintance or somebody who's
on the police force that will put in a
good
a good word for them i didn't have
anybody like that and merit made no
difference whatsoever this is not a
meritocracy we live in yeah you can take
any number of these tests and outscore
everybody else and get nothing and
nowhere and it's especially true of
civil service it's it's true in a lot of
fields in the economy but especially in
civil service that has been a pronounced
issue for a long time so
presumably during all this time though
you're not just saying as many people do
when they leave college whether they
graduate or not they say okay well
that's it i'm never reading a book again
i'm done with all that book learning
something tells me that's not not your
mindset even as you're doing these
physical jobs it certainly was and i
would i would like go to library sales
and
found a little bookstore you know that
had some academic books in it and just
get whatever i could and i always had to
uh
i had to basically read whatever i found
i couldn't afford to order a book you
know i mean even back then books were
expensive so i couldn't go to a
bookstore and pay full price for a book
so i was constantly buying used books
which were you know when they were
textbooks
they were used and therefore outmoded
you know the field advances the book
stays the same but nevertheless you know
it's got some of the stuff that i need
in it then i can i can absorb that so
that's what i did yeah just basically
worked on my uh you know on my own ideas
trying to apply what i read in these
books
was there any field that attracted you
in particular i mentioned that i don't
have anything past
high school math and even that it was
pretty sketchy on
math physics philosophy theology
well now when i was uh 14 i was working
on a ranch in wilson montana which is
just across the bridges from bozeman i
don't know if you're familiar with
boseman but anyway i was uh you know
working as a as punching cow stacking
hay irrigating on this ranch and uh and
i took two books with me and one of them
was a book by by albert einstein on the
theory of relativity and the other one
was a book by bertrand russell
okay
and
i i would read these books i was living
in a covered wagon they call it a sheep
wagon these days but literally literally
i'm not kidding i mean that's what it
was you know kerosene lamp in a in a
sheep wagon out in the middle of a field
of reading bertrand russell and alberto
reading bertrand wrestling albert
einstein and it occurred to me
these two things really need to be put
together
and then
you know once i decided that i started
putting them together and then i found
out about kurt gerdell and the
undecidability theorem and and
yes absolutely
okay you see because reality isn't just
geometric which is what einstein thought
it was nor is it just linguistic it's a
blend of the two
right russell saw it as being linguistic
einstein saw it as being geometric
okay so i decided that reality must be
logical geometric
putting the two of them together and of
course then i realized well i've got to
put together a theory construct a theory
in which reality is actually logical
geometric and so that's where the ctmu
came from
and the ctmu is the cognitive theoretic
model of the cognitive theoretic model
of the universe this is your theory of
everything my theory of everything and
it's all in the name if you take a good
close look at that you've got cognitive
theory and of course you know a theory
is a kind of language theoretic language
okay then you've got cognitive theoretic
model you've got a model and then you've
got universe
you've got a language you've got a
universe and then the model is the
mapping between them
ctmu says those are all the same thing
all of those terms all of those those uh
those properties are distributed
everywhere over reality
reality can have only one structure
when once you realize that and you
implement it in theoretical form so then
the question i asked you is kind of a
stupid question because i said which
field was it that attracted you and your
answer is yes
[Laughter]
well
i would have to say it would have to be
logic and language and then physics and
mathematics
okay so those are the those are the
fields and that's what i thought i was
conveying but
yes apparently i need to spell it out
you do no you do because but this is so
important that
you're not just talking about
this siloed aspect of thought or this
you know philosophy over here
language over here math over here
physics over here but you're presenting
something that is universal
correct
correct absolute and universal
to get the absolute invariance the
absolute truths of reality
you know things that are true everywhere
you go no matter you know at what time
you exist or in what place you exist
it's the same
so for those of us who have an iq that's
a little bit lower than yours
i'm i'll admit it i with no false
modesty and no uh undue confidence well
iq is not the last word in intelligence
by any means
iq is where you focus you can focus
marshall all your intellectual energy
and focus it very tightly on one item
that you've been presented with okay
there's tests contain items and you're
focusing on each one of those items
you're not seeing anything else
okay and that's what iq is
but in addition to that depth and that
focus there is also aperture think of
the mind as a kind of camera
okay what a lot of high iq people have a
lot of difficulty doing is widening
their mental aperture you've got to be
flexible you've got to be able to widen
and narrow that aperture at will as
you're doing the depth perception too so
you've got the
focus
depth of focus the magnification
as it were yeah plus the aperture and
most people you know most high iq people
they have the magnification but they
don't have the aperture so then from the
perspective
simultaneously i suppose both of depth
and breadth here
if we're talking about a theory of
everything the first question we have to
establish
does god exist
yes
simple yes
it's the identity has a the reality has
an identity
okay the identity is that as which
something exists okay
another matter of fact when you say the
word reality you're naming an identity
it is you're identifying something
this i'm smiling because your answer on
this is so beautiful it it just reminds
me of of moses at the burning bush and
moses at the burning bush says who shall
i tell the people that you are talking
to god and god says tell them i am that
i am right i am identity itself i'm
being himself exactly that's exactly
right that's what the ctmu says it's
just comes up with the mathematical
structure that you need to build a
reality out of that
you see
so you come up with that identity and
then you search it for its properties
you see once you've built the
preliminary framework then you start
deducing the properties of this identity
and you find out that those properties
match those of god as described in most
of the world's major religions
right just the theistic religion so i'm
thinking judaism christianity and islam
or are you talking also of saying
buddhism taoism hinduism buddhism of
course hinduism and buddhism they have a
god
taoism you know they the
their central principle is the way
or the dao okay
and uh they don't see dao as as as god
and then in buddhism of course you've
got you know they they are trying
basically to achieve sunyata or
emptiness right which is most buddhists
a lot of buddhists don't even understand
what that's supposed to mean but once
again
there's no god there you can kind of
read god implicitly some buddhists have
talked to buddhists who actually think
that there is a god in buddhism of a
sort but it's
you know that concept of of pure
consciousness
is what it is
okay and if you ask them well whose
consciousness are you talking about they
will point at themselves and say my
consciousness
in a way they're you know
they kind of attribute the existence of
everything to themselves
okay now i know i've known a lot of
people in hollywood in washington dc who
do the same thing actually well that's
that's right that's why buddhism is very
fashionable among some of those people
that's a good point yeah that's a good
point so so yes uh but anyway when you
look at what they've they've all got you
come down to the same thing
all right
everybody has the dao
or the way you know that's the way
reality works
right and uh and and everybody you know
has sunyata which is pure syntax
right pure cognition with no
instantiation no content
right and then you've got what what the
abrahamic religions call god
it's all the same thing
okay but
what are its properties
okay are its properties such that you
can deny the existence of god or are its
properties such that god definitely has
to exist
and the answer is
god exists
god property is the properties of the
central substance and central principle
of reality those properties are
attributed to god including of course
you know things like you have the three
o's omniscience omnipotence and
omnipresence but then you've also got
consciousness god has to be sentient
so so we're not just we're not just
defining god out of existence sometimes
you'll hear people
say god exists and and but they'll give
god such a weak and shallow definition
that the god that they're describing has
no
uh no relation to the god that we
conceive of you're saying no this god is
god god himself is conscious and and
therefore personal
yes you can establish a personal
relationship with god
we're images of god you know what an
image is it's basically the product of a
mapping god maps himself into each human
being
right that's a very personal thing that
god is doing for us
right
and i don't understand how anybody can
say that it's any different
we reflect the structure of the universe
each one of us we're carried by it
everything we do we exist in a medium
what is that medium
right where did it come from what holds
it together what is the unifying
coherence the source of coherence of
that medium now now is your claim that
is your claim a pantheistic claim that
god is the universe or the universe is
god and that's that
or no or is god outside of the universe
and created god is greater than well
what is the universe
damned if i know you ever hear the
simulation hypothesis yes okay well the
simulation hypothesis
is basically the idea that reality we
see around is physical reality is
simulated on some sort of an automaton
or or a or a computer yeah some some
aliens somewhere have just uh they've
fooled us right right exactly
eat a piece of liquid
before one launches into the simulation
one needs a little sustenance you know
okay so anyway
the idea is that you've got some kind of
an automaton running you've got a
simulation mounting on it
and god it's more panentheistic you know
what panentheism is i do uh i think i do
but
that means that uh
we are in god
let me know how i've gone wrong we are
in god and god is in us and it is not
merely that god and the creation are one
and the same but they are
quite related is that something
approaching panentheism
a little bit because there's uh there's
the idea is that you've got
the physical universe that you see
around you but god is not confined to
the physical universe okay see there's a
an ordinary pantheist
thinks assumes that god is somehow
confined to the universe that there is
just what we see around us and god is in
every piece of it god is distributed
over it yeah
but it's uh it's a little bit more
complex than that because this part of
the universe that we see around us
cannot exist just by itself yeah
okay there are certain things that it
entails
and when you go into those entailments
that's how you get to god that's how you
get to the identity of reality okay and
now to get back to the to the reality
self-simulation at least that's what i
call it self-simulation but to get back
to the simulation hypothesis
that we're living in the display
of that simulation
in addition to the display there is also
a processing aspect
okay and god it captures both of those
things he captures both the display and
the processor
what what do you mean i hate to put it
in the end well i mean okay here's the
display you realize the display contains
states yep okay you see things the
objects contains it states are static
that's why they're called states okay
static how do they change well they have
to be processed something has to okay
yeah yeah and and in the calculus for
example those are tiny little
infinitesimal intervals okay but they
are not actually contained in the states
themselves they have a neighborhood a
little tangent space or what have you
you know where you can sort of draw
little vectors that suggest that some
kind of processing is going on but the
idea of being a state and being a
process
those are two different things
to the in the ordinary ordinary way of
looking at it okay
it turns out that you can't properly
describe reality and causation at all
unless you put those things together
somehow
and that's what it takes god to do
okay god provides the processing
functionality for your state you have an
internal state an external state you're
a material human being right like to
explain how that is changing through
time
uni and maintaining its coherence
through time even as it changes that's
what you need god for yeah i certainly
agree with that entirely and so
i i might not be sophisticated enough to
parse all of the quibbles that there
might be but broadly speaking as a
christian so much of what you're saying
resonates is obviously true for me the
idea that uh well i'm a member of the
body of christ the idea that god creates
the world in this uh great act of love
this great act of charity self-love and
and
yeah yeah well then self-love don't
forget you're an image of god right so
when loving himself god loves you and
god and and you're supposed to love god
back right and this ties into something
like the trinity right the idea that god
is three persons in one divine unity so
all of this is making a lot of sense to
me so
now how do i how do i make sense
of consciousness
well
ordinarily you know what
quantum mecha you know quantization is
you know i know the word yeah well you
decide what the the ultimate irreducible
objects are the the the
quanta in terms of which your reason it
turns out that in order to quantize
that theory that i was talking about
that theory of identity where you've got
the display and you've got the processor
and it's handling both
it turns out that in order to handle
both of those things
you need a certain kind of quantum
that quantum is called an identity
operator god is the identity so
obviously these little quanta they have
to be they're doing things they're
processing so we can call them operators
right they are identity operators
okay the identity operator has basically
it takes input from the outside world
recognizes it or accepts it using syntax
processes it and then returns it to the
world as external state
okay so things come in then they're
processed right there's throughput which
is you could call that the subjective or
internal state of the identity operator
and then it's returned to the external
universe
so what are you attributing now
so what i'm saying is that's
consciousness and i'm saying that
consciousness exists in every part of
the universe because those are the
quantum no that's what i'm asking are
you telling me that this table is
conscious
in that sense yes generically conscious
but it's relying on our consciousness to
do it we have there's there's levels of
quanta okay these are tertiary quanta
they're all put together using physical
localistic forces right
but those are under determinative they
don't fully determine what happens
why the heisenberg uncertainty principle
for example it tells you that you know
the quantum rules they're probabilistic
right they don't actually determine
events okay so what determines events
we do
we don't know how we do it but we do it
when everybody's will is put together
we're all creating the best possible
universe we can for ourselves
and god is what harmonizes all of our
different perspectives and makes things
happen for all of us at the same time
and if we were doing things correctly
this would be the best of all possible
worlds
sadly however
we oftentimes make mistakes
and that's what we have to get out of
doing but we can't get out of doing it
until we understand what reality is what
we are and what the relationship between
those two things is now you've mentioned
two things that raise a new question for
me which is you mention this idea of
simulation just the simulation or
self-simulation and you've mentioned us
doing things so then it would seem to me
we have to tackle the question
do we really do much of anything at all
in the sense do we have free will
yes we do
okay i'm glad to hear it i always
thought we did well yes we have to have
free will oh i was discussing with you
earlier the idea of a fixed array yeah
all right now modern physics no
basically what you've got is you've got
a bunch of quantum fields and
superposition and then those fields
consist of little fluctuations little
quantum fluctuations right where is the
fixed array we were talking about a
manifold right with a bunch of zero
dimensional points
okay those two things are not compatible
okay
quantum field theory and that that that
fixed array manifold where you can
parameterize all of the causal functions
using the manifold that doesn't work
okay those two things don't fit together
now now
you you explained to me when we were
speaking about this earlier you put this
into even more layman's terms and i've
somehow it has already flown out of my
head
can you can you put that into more basic
terms what you've just said
but what was it you you need to
understand about this what what are you
actually why why are these two concepts
you're describing why are they not
reconcilable
these
what is the problem with these oh i i
explained that to you already that's
what okay all right
it consists of zero dimensional points
limit points or cuts and i told you what
a dedicated cut was right
these limit points have zero extent
they're exact locations and that's a cut
you're actually
you know you've got something on one
side of the point and then you've got
something on the other side of the point
and any line that you draw through the
point itself is going to be cut by the
point yep okay so so we call that a cut
okay
okay and the uh the cut is zero
dimensional which means that it has no
extent at all it's an exact location
it's precise
no extent it's not smeared out okay if
you take all of those points and you add
them together
you get zero right now because no matter
how many times you add zero to itself
you just get zero
and because the manifold consists of
those points that's what you have to do
to find out the extent of the manifold
okay so what this is telling you is that
the manifold itself has a zero extent
there's nothing there
so the real manifold of classical
physics is a paradoxical construct
okay okay so that's why those two things
that's why
that doesn't work with quantum field
theory and the idea that things are are
you know
quantum fluctuations and fields you know
that's as a matter of fact
that particular concept of the real
manifold that doesn't work for anything
at all
it's a conceptual convenience we can
reason about reality in terms of it and
we can actually get to some very
interesting conclusions
okay
using it you're right but it doesn't
work in the long run okay and because it
doesn't work most causal functions of
course are parameterized in terms of
this manifold okay okay in other words
you take you know you've got x y and z
axes and the forces that exist the
forces that cause things to hap to
happen right those are those forces are
all directed along one of those axes
that's what a force is right okay when
you take away the points those zero
dimensional points now all of that
disappears the basis of causation has
just fled the coop on you
right okay because you no longer have
little points the tails of the little
vectors that point there you can no
longer parameterize your causal
functions
using those points and vectors so what
do you do to get causal functions
well it turns out you have to use
something called advanced causation and
you combine that with retrocausa with uh
retro cause or excuse me advanced
causation is called retro causation you
combine that with ordinary
causation
and you get something else entirely
it's called metacausation in the ctmu
so
it's referred to using two operations
one of which is called conspansion and
the other which is called sub operation
called telecrecursion because
when we're talking about free will
often the conversation especially these
days becomes this sort of shallow
discussion of well this caused this and
i'm going to describe a totally
deterministic system and so as a result
of this causing this causing this
causing this you don't have free will
and you're saying cause is actually more
complicated than just
cause
that's correct in other words talking
about free will in those terms is oshios
means nothing
you can't get anywhere with it okay
reality is actually generative okay it's
not a fixed manifold everything has been
created all the time not just our states
our states are being recreated right
you know i can cross my legs i can
uncross my leg that's that's the that's
the changing state yeah but uh but the
medium around us is changing when i look
at you i'm seeing michael knowles okay
i'm seeing you sitting there
but that means that i'm seeing your
boundary i'm seeing what distinguishes
you from the external environment right
there's a medium around you so i have to
be regenerating that as the same time as
i'm regenerating your state in my head
okay
when i say regenerating the reason i'm
doing that i could also say i'm
recognizing
michael knowles i'm recognizing your
state right now but i'm also recognizing
the state of the medium around you
because otherwise i wouldn't be able to
distinguish you from the medium and you
wouldn't exist at all right right well
it's sort of like a a little baby right
has trouble uh recognizing the limits of
things and recognizing what some
individual object might be from you know
the glass on the table they have trouble
distinguishing those precisely yeah okay
the baby has to learn to distinguish
those boundaries and it has to receive
the right visual cues at the right age
so that it can actually learn how to do
that yeah so
now now we're at metacausation so what
does
medicalization hap
what causation works from past to future
okay metacausation works from past to
future and from future to past in a
closed loop it's called a conspensive
cycle okay okay so that's basically what
we have to do to quantization in order
to make causality where no
and of course when i say causality i
mean metacausation okay so how does
because ordinary past the future
causality parameterized by a fixed array
that doesn't work
so i get i get past the future this
seems pretty simple i pick up the glass
of water i put it over here and now i
remember two seconds ago that water was
over here and then i caused it to go
over there right so how do you cause
something to go from the future to the
past
you it
you it can't go anywhere unless there's
some place for it to go yeah that's
that's all i'm saying okay this is
in the universe everything changes with
time you're actually you know
in the theory of relativity for example
all the points are events okay and that
means that there's a time parameter
involved okay
so when you take that glass and you move
it from there to there
okay
you think that there's a point right
there where you're gonna move that glass
that's false
okay the point to which you are going to
move that glass is actually in the
future
when you pick up that glass it's still
in you understand what i'm saying yes
okay that makes sense
and
and then getting back to god i guess
we're always trying to get back to god
god
is outside of time and space
distributes over time and space and
there's some left over
time and space is static it's a display
imagine that you're a little homunculus
inside a computer display like the
matrix for example okay
god not only distributes over that but
there's a whole other domain where god
exists
and that's the processing domain that's
the non-terminal domain in the ctme
we're in the terminal domain
right and most physicists when they try
to reason about the terminal domain
they reason under physical confinement
okay well i can only look at
physics and i have to use what i know
about physics what i can observe about
physics to explain everything else that
i explain so they have that kind of
explanatory closure
yep going right there so speaking of
this non-terminal domain
in a really basic question
do i'm not going to ask you if i'm going
to go to heaven or hell but will i go to
either heaven or hell
you will persist
after you die
okay where you go depends on who michael
knowles really is
i you would know that better than anyone
yeah i i hope i know that better than
but you're you're telling me i'm going
somewhere
yes
you're confident of that i don't just uh
evaporate i don't just turn into
oblivion
well you can if you displease god that's
exactly what's going to happen to you
god is going to cut you off and he's
going to say i can't see him anymore
he's going to turn away from you and
then you won't be able to reunite
salvation will be impossible for you
because salvation means that god has got
to pull you back into himself right okay
but god doesn't want to see you anymore
he doesn't even know you exist he knows
your physical body is there but he's not
interested anymore because you hate him
you deny his existence you offend him so
he's not going to look at you right so
now what happens well okay you're dead
you still want to live there's something
in you that still desperately wants to
live so it's still going to be there
what happens now
well you try to create your own world
for yourself but if you're a bad person
you're an evil person what kind of world
is that going to be it's going to be an
evil world and that's what we call
hell this is what john milton says in
the mouth of satan he says the mind is
its own place and it can make a hell of
heaven or heaven a hell no you got it
it reminds me of dante also this this
idea of god turning away at the very
deepest part of hell is satan frozen in
a lake of ice of his own making of his
own making because of the flapping of
his own wings because he's apart from
the warmth of god precisely okay
that's the way it has to work
so we've gotten through death judgment
heaven and hell free will and god
i'm not completely there's a lot more to
be said well and and we still have some
time i mean fortunately on my usual show
there is about 30 seconds to come to any
conclusion about anything and thankfully
i am not bringing chris lange into
nashville to talk for 10 minutes i this
is going to be a much longer discussion
uh
so
for this discussion
would you like a cigar
sure i haven't smoked a cigar in a long
time oh excellent you know the body is a
temple the temple needs incense
back in the day i used to enjoy a cigar
every now and then
good cigar
i'm glad you liked it this is one of my
favorite cigars that's come out you know
if you were on the joe rogan show they
would offer you something a little
stronger but uh this
we're gonna keep it to tobacco on this
show i think i think i've seen a couple
of yeah i've seen the rogan show a
couple of times he was talking about
some kind of drugs at that point in his
career i think that's all he was talking
about yeah
did you ever get into drugs i'm not
saying you know just because you were
around bars in new york but even the
drugs that everyone says expand your
mind and anything like that
well you couldn't really grow up in the
era when i grew up around the kind of
people
i was surrounded with without trying you
know some drugs i have no
i don't have a substance abusive
tendency in my body i i
i just don't have any bad habits except
for
this
licorice and candy oh man i love that
stuff
it's addictive i don't know
it is but i have to hide it for myself i
don't have any in the house right now
um
but you so you never go because i would
always have people tell me especially in
college they'd say michael you have to
drop acid you have to smoke this you
have to take mushrooms it's going to
expand your mind and i thought you know
my mind is my brain such as it is is
pretty much all i got i'm not exactly
the captain of the football team and if
some drug messes up my brain i'm sunk
that's correct but of course what they
say is that
some of these medications are
can actually be
good for you in terms of you may have
certain things
certain
mental routines
that are destructive and that aren't
good for you that can be interdicted by
psychedelics for example what's your
take on it
my take is that could very well be true
you know the psychedelics could open up
a gap between your your temporal
consciousness and your non-terminal
consciousness right your mind is a it's
an extended stratified thing you're
we're just using our terminal
consciousness right now but there are
other
aspects
to your consciousness you can actually
get you know certain kinds of insights
and communications if you just open up a
gap
you understand
let them come in and let them come in
and fill the gap and then
you know you can see them as they would
ordinarily so the things that people see
when they're on psychedelics
i usually write them off and i tell
people you know you're just uh
hallucinating
but but you're saying maybe that's not
not all it is
they might be seeing something real
well
once again what is reality
is reality just stuff out there no
reality has a mental aspect
right and once you admit that basically
everything has a mental aspect then of
course what's going on in your mind is
real it takes on a kind of reality it's
not the same as physical reality it is
nevertheless real are angels and demons
real
yes
yes i think so too
is there is there a fear that if you
take some of these drugs you might be
letting in the wrong guys that's a
problem isn't it
and that's a problem that i think a lot
of people have encountered you have to
be a certain kind of person to be able
to handle these drugs and not be sucked
under by them okay
because once your mind is you know is is
is uh is
messed with and that way
something else you know it's weakened
you know you're not exactly in control
anymore something else can come in and
grab it and if you open up that gap that
i was talking about what can come into
that gap might not be good for you
god is real angels are real demons are
real
is the devil real
oh yes
yes well it has to be
you know we were talking about michael
knowles being surrounded by the medium
and you know you've got a boundary well
god has a boundary too he's got a very
tight boundary he's a perfect he's
perfect
he can't take anything resembling
imperfection right he can't take it into
himself because that would be a
contradiction
okay so
god needs an antithesis
in order to be properly defined what is
that antithesis
anti-god or satan
so it definitely exists now satan isn't
coherent because you know he basically
hates existence nevertheless he gains
coherence through human beings through
secondary telors as they're called in
the ctmu
in other words satan can nucleate power
structures for example you know things
like corporations and governments
where you've got people in there that
can be acquired as resources and there's
a kind of skeleton you know a corporate
organization a governmental you know
organization that's holding them
together holding them in place that can
be exploited by satan so you're not
describing
manichaeism you're not saying there's
god and then the the opposite of god and
there's some maybe equivalence between
the two you're saying that
god obviously there is an antithesis
christ has an antichrist but that
it's incoherent and and in you know are
you saying that he sort of lack that the
devil sort of lacks substance or that's
why he needs the humans i'm saying the
devil likes coherence
coherence is what brings everything into
superposition
right with itself in other words
it allows something to this is going to
sound a little bit paradoxical allows
something to communicate non-locally
with itself okay right all of its
possible states are in superposition
they exist all all at once
okay
and this is this is uh
pretty much inescapable
i'm reminded of a writer renee gerard
who who
has this idea had this idea that uh
the devil being who he is is a kind of
contradiction of being
and it seems to me what gerard says is
something similar to what you're saying
which is that he requires us to kind of
do his dirty work that is correct
yeah
we give
existence to the devil to save
now you have to make a distinction
however between satan and lucifer for
example now lucifer is an angel
okay that's what he's supposed to do is
fallen angel right you know but
nevertheless an angel right the angel of
light okay the morning star whatever you
want to call them okay
that is not safe those are two different
things what's the difference this would
no doubt be classified as a heresy for
example in the
in the church i did not i did not bring
the inquisition with me yet they're not
behind the curtains here so so what is
your idea then because traditionally
it's understood that satan and lucifer
are the same person you're saying
they're different
yes
yes how are they different well
lucifer walks the fence basically he's
the angel of light what does light do
basically light is what brings reality
to us okay he's walking the fence
between good and evil we're all in the
same boat we all walk the fence between
good and evil okay how can we do that
okay
well through lucifer and the grace of
god
through lucifer basically lucifer has
been exiled here because god can't take
won't tolerate the imperfections of this
place okay he has
lucifer handle that for him and that's
why lucifer is
is what he is that's how he fell down
here to earth okay he's performing a
function here that function is light
i mean i don't know do you follow what
i'm i i do i'm still trying to parse the
difference a little if christ says i saw
satan fall like lightning from heaven
is he describing satan here or he's
describing lucifer
or both
if christ were here and i could hear his
exact words i could perfectly interpret
them right okay yeah yeah but it's very
hard to do that you know 2 000 years
after the fact right with all the
different translations and
interpretations that the bible has
undergone okay and what i like to do is
i like to approach it from first
principles and look at it logically
right rationally and what does logic
tell us if anything okay well logic
tells us that basically god needs a
negation but that negation is too
incoherent to function in this world
except through
human beings right what's the rest of it
what's the rest of it all about yeah and
this is lucifer is a concept that is
better suited
than satan to that purpose i i love this
point
that uh
he's incoherent that the old devil is
incoherent that i read some poem i think
it's a modern poem that says you know
sin is a big is a big problem because
it's evil but it's also a big problem
because it's such a waste of time it's
such a way it's so incoherent when you
think of people when you actually when
you take the suffering out of it and you
just think of people committing any
particular sin
it just doesn't make any sense does it
or you think so the sense that it makes
to them is they're enjoying it
they're hedonistic deriving pleasure
from from the sin and of course we all
you know have the same pleasure
mechanisms so we're all tempted to
commit sin but we've got to keep a lid
on it there have to be limits okay and
what i'm worried about is that now satan
controls the world and there are certain
people involved in running things who
don't have those limits well they're so
rich they're so you know powerful that
they don't need those limits anymore so
they're more or less thrown them off
now there's nothing new to the idea that
uh satan or or lucifer or let's call him
just the old uh the old devil himself
can is the prince of this world and that
the rich and the powerful
just
they do his bidding and they're bad
people and they follow their lowest
appetites and their pleasures and they
they can be sadistic and so that's been
going on for a long time is there
something particular about the moment
we're living in that says it's actually
gotten much worse
yes
that is they've actually
we've had such a
so many technological advancements that
now the the technology of of
surveillance and coercion are such and
these people are so rich
you know they're like black holes
gravitating all the money to themselves
that they're
they're unstoppable okay and because
they're unstoppable because they they
actually run everything
okay we are endangered by them now
it sounds to me like you're saying we
don't live in uh schoolhouse rock i'm a
bill up on capitol hill we're not living
in the republic that a lot of us
say that we're living in
that's correct we're ruled basically
the world is globalistic now
it's run by globalists that's that's
what that's their goal i mean that's
what global means we're going global
you know
it's oligarchic
and it would therefore be oligarchic
that's absolutely correct oligarchic
because very few of them actually exist
and this is beyond uh
you know
a u.s senator this is beyond the
structure there's no
those are puppets
you know i i it's it's fairly common
knowledge now i suppose that i regard
uh most politicians as being one step
removed from prostitutes
that's been true foreign
know a few exceptions but let me tell
you they're they're on the run yeah
okay
so it's uh it's a very serious situation
right and if you take a look at these
globalists the ones that have thrown off
all the limits and they're fantastically
rich and powerful now and you take a
look at what they actually have upstairs
i'm afraid it's not very impressive
right
okay i mean if you really look at their
intellectual production soros might be
the best of them he's at least got a
theory of economics you know it's flawed
but you know he at least has that the
rest of them are just a bunch of civil
rights what about uh
i guess even outside of
banking or finance per se what about
someone like
bill gates that guy's everywhere he
seems to be i don't know why is he an
expert on health care i don't know but
my television tells me that he is why is
he
so someone like that but is he a he's a
smart guy he's got to be right he oh
he's not stupid bill gates is uh he's
got a respectable intellect but there's
something
misfiring
there
okay bill is very concerned with uh with
overpopulation and we do have an
overpopulation problem so then this
brings me to i asked friends of mine i
said
speaking to chris langan send in your
questions and
most of the questions were about
metaphysics and god and the ctmu and all
of your thoughts on all those things but
one friend of mine he said you know
i want you to ask him about bitcoin i
want you to ask him about money and if
they're basically if there's any way to
bring break uh the government or super
government control of money what do you
think of if i want to start my own my
own currency i guess i could i'd call it
michael coin
is there is there any
is this one way to push back against an
increasingly technocratic global form of
government
yes there is but it has to start at the
local level you're not going to print
your own cur world currency to compete
head-to-head with these you've got to go
you know basically attend a few city
council meetings you've got to go in
there you know
say your piece say we've got a problem
you know
basically the world is run by globalism
this is america you know we should have
our right of self-determination here but
that's being taken away from us see who
uh you know agrees with you about it you
know i mean somebody will probably come
up to you after your speech and say you
know i agree with you a hundred percent
you then you start you find out who
those people are you get together and
you start putting pressure on your local
politicians are you saying the situation
is so bad
politically that uh actually
you know people will call you a radical
and an extremist and a terrorist for
something like this but are you saying
basically jefferson we need we need to
go fight another revolution or something
or is there
i i would just assume
see this whole thing resolved
non-violently of course i want you know
i want peace on earth i want
everybody to feel as though we're we're
in fellowship with each other the
brotherhood of man you know what i'm
talking about
that is the right way to do it when
when you or i or or donald trump for
that matter you use the word globalism
what the liberal establishment says is
oh that's either they'll say globalism
is good and we should have more of it or
they'll say that's a crazy conspiracy
theory there's no such thing as
globalism
what
i could i could point to a lot of
international organizations that
increasingly try to take power away from
national government what are
intelligence agencies what are trade
secrets what's what's intellectual
property they're off property they're
all conspiracies right okay people
trying to get ahead by lying by a
mission or relying directly to other
people
the competition right
that's what it is you can't get away
from conspiracy it's how the world works
as a matter of fact it's game
theoretically rational so you're saying
not conspiracy theory you're saying just
flat out conspiracy that's what makes
the world go around i'm afraid you know
and oh but of course
you know the the elite themselves
realize this
they know that that's how the world
works they just want to distract you
well that's that's such a such a great
way to put it where you say a trade
secret or or just just a group of people
come together they say i've got this
good idea for a company and we're going
to come together and do that and we're
not going to let the competition know
about it we're going to start this and
we're going to hopefully it'll be
successful and we'll make some money and
that is a
young foreign leaders i mean
everybody's a young global leader right
i mean trudeau macron merkel
putin
you know for the putin deals you that
very much surprised me but klaus schwab
is on record he's on video in fact
you know claiming that vlad putin is one
of his young global leaders
trained in globalism you know it's funny
you mentioned that the young the young
wing of the world economic forum when i
was a freshman in college
you get all of these opportunities for
uh
internships and fellowships and you get
a grant you try to get a grant you see
apply to these things i don't know
anything i don't know anything about any
of these groups and so i said i'm a
politically minded young man very
conservative so it made me very
different than my classmates right and
one of the opportunities that came
across was the world economic forum
global change makers
were invited to be a part of this no i
applied i what did i actually apply i
applied and i said i said they said wait
a minute well i didn't know what it was
so i said what's the experience i said
well i'm very involved in this
conservative group and this right-wing
group and this good way to get ahead i
got to give you that well but i'll tell
you i i thought i had a good resume it
wasn't like my classmates which was a
lip they had all their liberal groups so
i said i'm a conservative so but you
probably want some conservatives here
right and i
so i apply and you know you're going to
be shocked to hear this chris i didn't
hear back
i'm absolutely flabbergasted and my
liberal classmates who i felt had a
weaker application but they were all
part of the liberal groups yes they did
get it
i guess it makes sense now that i know
what the world is socialism i mean what
is communism right these things were
actually funded they're more or less
invented by the central bank you know
who funded
you know originally was paying marks and
engels and before that moses has and
other people to come up with you know
it's a strategy for world domination it
has been for the last 200 years what has
changed so
so when someone like trump comes along
and he says i'm not going to fight this
political battle along exactly left
right lines or republican democrat but
i'm saying i'm going to stand for the
american nation and and nationalism
generally against globalism
but he managed to get through he did get
elected yes he did
were you a trump supporter
you don't need to say if you don't as a
matter of fact back when people were
saying trump can't read look look at the
way he hesitates you know he can't he's
got trouble with the teleprompter the
guy can't read i actually stood up and i
said no i said i've met donald trump and
i think his iq is probably equal to that
of the average harvard professor really
yeah oh yeah
i i actually stood up for course i never
got anything out of it but you know i
thought i was doing you know you just
said it because telling people that you
know basically he is company he's a good
businessman you know and therefore could
be good for the country and i wanted
people to understand that so how did
this guy and i i've asked this i've
asked this to my friends and i said
how did this guy who i think was
basically on the level and really did
at least try to pose a
a stopping block to the
globalism program how did he ever get
elected
how'd they let him through
well he was a little bit of a wild card
trump is not as easily controlled as
some of them are so he stood up there
and he spoke his mind he's got good
instincts in that respect because what
he said
resonates with what is in the minds of a
lot of american citizens we want to have
our own country we want america to have
first we don't want our borders to be
open we don't want millions of third
world migrants coming here every year
and displacing us from our own territory
i mean and trump actually did a good job
of enunciating that that's how he got
elected okay and the first time around
you know they weren't prepared yep you
know so they couldn't do anything about
it the second time around
are you suggesting chris that there were
some questions about the 2020
presidential election
anyone who doesn't understand that that
election was
shall we say not quite up to snuff is
some kind of
i because i was told by all the fact
checkers and all those social media
sensors that if i raised any question i
said you know it seems like they kind of
violated the law in pennsylvania and it
seems like actually they kind of
extended the voting periods
they said that's that's crazy you're a
conspiracy theorist how dare you
well that's exactly what they do you see
you've
violated group think so you're out
your opinion means nothing
would how would you describe your
politics populist conservative i was
always pretty much of an independent
when i was a kid i was basically a
democrat working you know i mean my
family was democratic you know it was uh
i think my stepfather was a you ever
hear the wobblies yeah he was an
organizer for the wobblies out of out of
uh chicago
okay and so always i was raised around
this liberal attitude so yeah we were we
were democrats and i thought okay yeah
the working man the people that actually
the people that actually hold this
country together that keep everything
moving you know those are the ones that
we should really care about and and you
know if we if we're not careful the rich
will walk all over them so they need you
know somebody to
to to to defend them and to take care of
them
and you know i'm one of those people i
wasn't rich you know we didn't my family
had no money at all yeah so naturally i
gravitated to that then the democratic
party changed
okay no longer was it about the working
man suddenly it was full of like these
billionaire techies that have never done
an honest day's labor in their entire
miserable lives
okay and i realize wait a minute things
have changed here yeah
there is no more democratic party of the
kind that that i used to know about okay
that i used to belong to
and that's when i became a conservative
and a conservative in a stronger sense
than most people who call themselves
conservatives today because they're
really just cuckolded by the liberals no
they're afraid they're afraid to say boo
to them i mean look
well you know what's funny now i i was
told some years ago
this was probably 2016 2017 someone said
michael you you can't use the word
cuckold as an insult because that's
uh racist or sex so right and i said
look i'm of italian extraction cuckold
is the oldest
insult in the italian culture that you
know even the sicilians have a gesture
for them
and it's the rock star gesture i think
uh i forget the name of the rock star
also sicilian who popularized it and
very famous i can't believe his name
escapes me but that that's not it's the
that's the symbol of the cuckold i said
there's nothing wrong about you it's a
very funny insult and it's descriptive
apparently some married
apparently there are married couples
that actually that's their hobby
right i can't see it myself but not my
thing
right but and and it's it's obviously
it's disordered nobody wants you know i
don't think rationally anyone would say
that's a good way to uh live your life
and what you're saying is that there are
people who call themselves conservatives
and really they're just squish
cuckolded or they just give in it's a
figure of speech yeah we're not accusing
them of literal cockroaches no they
might be i don't know i don't know in
the bedroom but basically they are
letting the other party wear the pants
yeah and they're putting on their little
panties yeah and doing whatever they're
told that's what i'm saying yeah that's
what kind of that's that's the modern
rhino the modern republican you know i
mean that's what most of them are
and believe you me most of them wouldn't
do a damn thing for anybody else right
they're basically into their own thing
their own self-interest and they just
never take any risks on behalf of the
american people anymore
and that offends me
because we're paying them and they've
promised to represent our interests and
they're not doing it well you look at
really
basic issues
something like immigration well and
trump really won on the immigration
issue something like immigration
this is no insult to anyone around the
world who wants to come to the united
states
it's frankly it's not even an insult to
the illegal aliens who are pouring
across the border but i think
anyone can agree taking in one million
legal immigrants and two million illegal
immigrants annually it's gonna be more
than that this year probably on top of
that three million people per year
taking them in
or whose houses are they living in
here see them living in anybody anybody
from washington dc's house no it's not
martha's vineyard
southampton you don't see too many of
them there no
but it's a but it's a political strategy
that is opposed if you look at public
opinion polls
the vast majority of americans including
lots and lots of democrats want to
drastically reduce
this this immigration issue and yet
doesn't matter which party gets elected
the border remains open the west
especially after uh
the especially after world war ii you've
got the this huge boom in the west
you've got the second half of the 20th
century now we're into the 21st century
that's where all the money is that's
where all the opportunity is and so just
naturally people want to flood in there
and if you've got relatively lacks
immigration policies well we used to
have
in order to get into this country you
used to have to prove that you were of
value that you could offer it something
it wasn't just about us giving to you if
you were an immigrant you wanted to come
here you had to show that you had
something to offer yourself
okay you had to you know learn english
you had to go through ellis island or
wherever you had to learn english you
had to learn about the constitution you
had to buy into our
to our politics but now it seems you're
incentivized to to hate america
to hate western civilization that's
right and now who would be doing that
any real american not that i know of
okay it's just it's a contradiction in
terms so but so what's the end game here
i mean if
if america is world domination
they're going global
that's what it's all about so
if if we've got this oligarchic group
this self-appointed oligarchic group
that i in my naivete in uh freshman year
of college i say oh the world economic
forum or what forget even wef there are
other international organizations the
united nations obviously uh the european
union which the the brits have pulled
themselves out of
but there are there are these groups
throughout the west that want to erase
national borders essentially that's
correct um and they want to deracinate
everybody that lives inside and yes the
race culture i say this as the
relatively moca skinned southern italian
here uh but there is a
there is a sense that no there is no um
we don't want to even even just look at
europe we don't want there to be french
culture and german culture and british
culture i know what a tragedy that is
look at those cultures they're beautiful
all the most beautiful cultures in the
world and the french and the french on
top of all those beautiful cultures too
yeah right
you know what the brits always say right
france is much too good for the france
[Applause]
that's a good way to put it so so then
what do what is your thought moving
forward we're in this very bad political
spot right now would seem to me we've
been in bad spots before uh tower of
babel didn't seem particularly pleasant
the solution to that didn't seem
particularly uh pleasant to listen to
talker yeah
yes
so so
what happens now do we just need to
field a good candidate you know or no
this is so far going political system is
kind of shot
okay so i'm afraid it's going to take
some activism we're going to have to
look i don't want anything violent to
happen i don't want a new revolution but
i will tell you this that if people
don't act as though they are willing
to fight for their own rights they're
going to lose those rights
founding fathers knew it you know it's
written right into the constitution
okay if we don't fight for our rights
we're going to lose them
simple as that you mentioned uh everyone
getting stuck with the fouchyauchi for
the last two years and you know it's so
so extremely effective that we all need
to take 55
just to uh marvel at the perfection and
efficacy of it
are you uh are you anti-vaccine
generally i take it you're anti covin
well i bought into the covert thing at
first and you know i went out and bought
you know
gina and i bought you know gas masks for
us and you know those n100 masks and uh
you know and i advise people what to do
so it's not to get infected with the the
deadly cove and then i noticed that that
you know
it wasn't really killing you i live in
northern missouri nobody up there was
wearing masks nobody up there i mean
and nobody was dying of covet 19. so i
realized there's got to be something a
little bit off about this right
and so i you know kind of like started
getting away from it and then i noticed
that you know this
well then i noticed that it was being
used as a pretext for something called
the great reset
and again i mean to bring back the world
economic forum
this is a page on the wef website is
something it's the great the great reset
of the global economies and the global
political order
that they're very open about it okay
and there have been you know white
papers written in the past about using
just this methodology to get
you know to get uh
everybody behind the globalist agenda
right operation you know warp speed was
part of that you know
and so then it then does trump bear some
responsibility for
heavenly bear's responsibility my
question is does he really know what's
going on or has he or surrounded himself
with people that are misleading him
about what's going on
i would like to believe that donald
trump has been misled but if he knows
how much damage those so-called vaccines
have actually caused and he's still
pushing them then we have a problem you
know if if you raise any questions about
even the covid vaccines which which
don't do at the very least they don't do
what
biden and fauci and wallensky told us
they would do namely to stop you from
contracting the virus or spreading it to
at the very least it doesn't do that uh
you're called a a crazy anti-vaxxer
and that's called cognitive dissonance
right i mean you know who's crazy you
know if you can look at the reality of
what is happening and you can deny it
and call anyone who who believes in it a
conspiracy theorist what kind of person
are you
well you're obviously a nut job a kook a
or something like that right
that's what all these people are
as i say conspiracy makes the world go
round okay
now
beyond uh finance or beyond these ngos
you mentioned the intelligence agencies
something that occurs to me is if i were
working at an intelligence agency they
never invited me never got never got
that uh invite unzip recruiter
perhaps you should consider yourself
lucky
i i think i do i certainly do
uh but if i were at an intelligence
agency and i've heard there was a guy
with the highest iq ever recorded who
was contradicting the liberal
establishment agenda i'd probably have a
file on that guy
have you uh
have you had any run-ins with the
some interest has been shown it was a
bleak they're very uh you know
let's just put it this way i managed to
you know meet you know a couple three
people that are involved in that line of
work when there was no actual reason
that that should have happened
in other words
but they're very cagey about it if they
want to recruit you they'll probably do
it obliquely if you don't apply to
actually join an intelligence service
but they're interested in you they will
try to get you involved with someone who
they control and then he will then
vector you around and and put you in
touch with the right people but you've
got to accept the agenda sight unseen
before that happens
right you've more or less got to let
them know that okay no matter what
they're actually planning to do i'm
going to go along with it because i
really really want to be in the cia or
the defense intelligence agency the nsa
or whatever right no such agency
[Laughter]
i like that
yeah but you have to somehow display
some sort of willingness
before you will be directly approached
by them
okay and i guess i never displayed that
kind of willingness so i'm not in yeah
i'm not there i'm not in the
intelligence community
i am you know periodically in touch with
people who are in the intelligence
community uh you know in various email
distributions and things like that but
that's it
since we're already in it they're gonna
there there are going to be people out
there who say this guy is talking about
every conspiracy theory i ever heard in
the whole book since we're already in it
let to take a slightly different tack
but still within the realm of what
wikipedia is going to call it conspiracy
theories
do you believe in aliens
well i will say this the intelligence
community large sectors of it believe in
aliens really yes
oh absolutely it's a big i mean they're
constantly discussing these things
yes and if you look at the global elite
you know and you wonder well i don't
want to blame the world banksters for
this you know that's you know that's a
conspiracy theory
then who is pulling all those strings
okay
could there be another kind of entity
you know
um
aliens demons whatever could there be
something that's pulling their strings
that that the global banksters know
about right and they're taking orders
from but they're being totally concealed
and hidden from the public this is a
viable hypothesis and it's one that the
intelligence communities don't reject
it's it's funny you post which is you
know kind of neither here nor there
because the intelligence communities
themselves could be run by aliens for
all we know
people are going to be laughing when you
say that that there are aliens that that
let them laugh okay but they can't they
won't be able to come up with any any
supporting argument against what i'm
saying it just they don't know enough
well it's ignorant it's funny that you
mention angels and demons or pardon
aliens and demons in the same breath
because i don't particularly believe in
aliens i mean what do i know i don't
there are a lot of things i don't know
about but i certainly believe that
demons exist because i'm pretty
confident that demons exist i'm i'm less
confident that aliens exist well but the
thing is a lot of people are reporting
that they're seeing these ufos the other
strange
alien suggestive phenomena so what what
is something like they call it the tic
tac of these weird ufos that seem to
violate the laws of physics correct
basically they look like you know little
you know blobs of light or spheres that
can commit these these these uh
maneuvers that are totally against the
laws of physics as we understand them
right they look like they have mass but
somehow they're not subject to inertia
they can turn on a dime on a right angle
and and continue at the same speed they
can accelerate at you know a tremendous
uh
with tremendous g forces okay how does
that how can that happen do you have any
theory
well
yes i do
but it's an involved you know it's
fairly involved basically when you
reduce the world to telesis you
understand that the reality consists of
a merging of mind and matter it's it's
an interplay you know of the two it's
not it's not just stuff and it's not
just pure abstract it's re it's rea
it can be real without necessarily being
a completely physical phenomenon okay in
other words there can be a mental
component to it
right
and that is what i think is is happening
here i think that we've got actually
there's something to it the number of
people that report ufo incidents is
simply too large people aren't you know
they're not all liars they don't run
around risking their reputations by
saying okay i'm going to make a nut out
of myself and say you know these ufos
exist but couldn't they just be nuts
well i suppose they could but it's
you're saying
i'm saying it's very improbable that
they are i mean because not that many
people are that nutty well you know my
friend andrew clavin who you met who you
met earlier he he has this party trick
which is he's a mystery writer and uh he
has written ghost stories and things and
at dinner parties he'll say hey just
i'll ask random person he'll say hey
have you ever seen a ghost
he says a lot of the time people will
say yes and throughout history people
report having seen a ghost that is
correct and he says you know too many
people are saying they've seen a ghost
for their not to be ghosts or something
like a ghost that's correct that's
absolutely correct have you ever seen a
ghost
i've seen things that look like ghosts
yeah
i have
i've seen things that look like ufos too
they're there i mean if you're not a
very observant person you'll never see
anything like that if your mind is
completely closed you just screen all
that stuff out you'll never see anything
like that but if you're an open-minded
person and you're observant you will see
things like that eventually
okay
i don't want to put you on the spot to
give an example because sometimes if i
describe an experience that i would call
religious or numinous sometimes people
say well describe it and say it's you
know it's i can go around the edges but
it's somewhat ineffable could you could
you describe such an experience
well
yes i could describe such an experiment
okay well
on the ufo thing i was working for the
forest service
in near lewiston montana
um in the lewis and clark national
forest
uh not too far from malmstrom air force
base and i was in charge of a mountain
range called the little snowys okay okay
i was the the fire guard the regional
fire guard for that area and i was alone
up there there were campgrounds and i'd
you know go up and tend to the
campgrounds
and uh you know make sure they were all
cleaned up and everything and it was one
of my duties and you know i had to be a
fire guard which means putting out
forests spotting and putting out forest
fires
and things like that one day i was up
there in a forest service pickup truck
at a certain campground and i was there
and suddenly i look up and i
i say suddenly it was just in the scans
i became aware that it was up there and
i looked up this is huge
spheroidal you know but elliptical not
not a perfect spheroid like a saucer
that was turned partially on its side
okay and i thought well
that must be one of those you know
lenticular clouds that i've heard of you
know so i looked at it and i figured
okay now i wonder how this evolves in
time
totally changeless
i actually took sticks and i tried to
use parallax to figure out you know what
is this thing why isn't it changing why
isn't it moving why is it completely
featureless and metallic looking
well it wasn't any lenticular cloud okay
and i literally stared at it for a long
long time before i finally just got okay
it's there got back in my pickup and
drove away
did you did you call it in or anything
well i've told a number of people about
it
yeah i didn't call it in no
it was irrelevant to the state of my
campgrounds
you know
it's funny you mentioned because
sometimes people say this is a little
different than seeing a ufo but somewhat
related people
will say you know
i don't believe in god i don't believe
in christianity because i don't believe
in miracles if miracles really happened
we'd all know about it
and
one if you look at the gospel accounts
of miracles happening the
the wildest part of it is not the
miracle happening it's the fact that
when the miracle happens everyone treats
it as this miraculous event and then
five seconds later they move on and
people treat it as totally ordinary and
this happens again and again and again
it's even happened i would say that i've
experienced things that are
miraculous yes and even in my own life
not one week later i'm just going about
my business as though it never happened
or or i'll forget that it happened or
anything
a miracle shouldn't that but you don't
deny that they happened no right no i
don't important thing
because then you know you're really nuts
when you when you deny that it happened
right right because you're so beholden
to some preconceived notion of the way
that's correct
so who are the real nuts obviously
they're the people that are doing all
the talk about the alien conspiracy
theories
okay there's obviously something there
or the number of people that report them
wouldn't be reporting them
there are people in the cia who actually
claim to have been abducted i'm not
going to tell you who they are but
they're there
okay and we're not talking about small
individuals we're not talking about
low-ranking individuals we're talking
about high-ranking individuals these
people not just that you've read a book
about it you're saying these people
you've talked to
or people that i was people that
there was one of them in particular that
that i was actually
they were
somebody that i knew was trying to
arrange
an introduction to this person
and i said well you know he's okay so
he's in the you know cia um
is he going to tell me the truth you
know i'm not in the cia is he going to
tell me the truth about anything
well no actually what he wants to talk
about is abductions because
you know he and his wife were actually
abducted by aliens and he wants to talk
to you about
and i said well is he going to tell me
the truth about anything
well i don't know i said then i don't
want to talk to him
okay i don't want to talk to him at all
there has to be some kind of
understanding that i'm not going to get
lied to otherwise i'm wasting my time
because i'll never know whether he's
lying or telling the truth so if
somebody isn't going to commit up front
to telling me the truth yeah i don't
have time for him
if he were a really smart liar he would
have just said i will tell you the truth
and lied even if you wanted to
i suppose so
so that's what they do in the cia yeah
right i mean it's sort of the job right
if you're a spy that's that's correct
and you lie your ass off yeah at every
available opportunity about everything
right right okay they don't all do that
i think there are a couple of people
that i sort of trust when they talk
about certain subjects
but you know by no means are they
entirely in the know even i mean if
you're in the cia you're basically a
bureaucrat right you know right you look
up you know you see okay well we you
know i've got my superior and then i'm
looking up farther now i see the
director of the cia
who's giving that guy us orders
it ain't the president
[Laughter]
you know i mean that's that's that
suddenly you're in a void who's running
things
okay most as far as most of these guys
are concerned it could be the devil
himself
that's running things they just don't
know you know it's so
amazing that you say that because it it
it takes it full circle to the point
that
when i hear okay this so-and-so is
actually really beholden to so-and-so
and this person is actually beholden to
this person and i i know that that's a
fact because you can just see it in
politics you can actually you can kind
of go to an org chart and kind of point
to it right and but then eventually say
in so and so if in a really powerful
position they're actually responsible to
so and so and accountable and you think
okay at a certain point you think i
don't know i have no way of verifying
this this could be it but and then when
you go all the way back to and so and so
is really just answering to the devil
now you've got me again because because
i read that in my bible i know that
that's true i know that the you know
he's the prince of this world well yeah
yes and they've been by the way i mean
there are accounts from biblical times
and pre-biblical times that involve ufos
things in the sky that show up during
critical battles for example and turn
the tide
right this goes all the way back you
know to the
the vedic religion you know the
pre-hindu
religion there are all kinds of people
who have reported these things they end
up in various religious scriptures
including
christian scriptures as well
in some cases
so that
i can't think of an example of an
extraterrestrial appearance well no
they're basically attributed to god
these are the interventions of angels or
something okay yeah okay you know you
even you can go back you know you look
at the mayans and the incas and people
like that they're also you know they're
they're pictures on on uh on temple
walls
rather they're carvings that seem to
suggest that these things actually
existed
well you know it it's it reminds me or
at least we're perceived right no
there's a great meme that i'm really
taking with it actually has to do with
iq which is a nice coincidence but it's
i love this meme because it's got the
really stupid guy at the one end of the
bell curve and he's sort of drooling and
he says duh all the bad stuff is because
of the devil right and then you get up
on the bell curve into i don't know say
iq of 120 or 130. and it's the really
smart guy the egghead with the glasses
and he says
that's just the start of the danger zone
the danger zone it's very interesting
when you're just smart enough but not
smart and those guys they say no
actually the devil doesn't exist and
actually we're all just sort of bags of
chemicals and no this is all it's all
rationally explainable and blah blah
blah blah and then you get up to the guy
at the really high end of the iq curve
in this meme and he says no actually the
bad stuff's just from the devil i mean
he agrees with the guy at the other end
of the
but
it strikes me that there's really
something to that roger scrutin the late
conservative philosopher he said that
the job of the conservative intellectual
is to articulate things that the common
man knows intuitively
that's right
and it's especially interesting when it
comes to you
because
you're a guy at the very highest end of
the intelligence spectrum
and you've lived the life of a
blue-collar guy
that's right i wanted meaning in my life
you know it's like i say i wanted
meaning above all things
you got to make sure
you know
that you decide up front when you're a
young man if you want to accomplish
anything
who do you serve
truth or mammon
okay you don't have a choice there's a
you do have a choice but you can't do
both at once
[Music]
okay it's either going to be truth which
is the same as god i mean truth and god
are to some extent synonymous yeah or is
it good to try and beautiful it's going
to be money and if you choose money if
you choose mammon then you're going to
be serving mammon who happens to be
the uh
globalists at this point because they
control all the wealth and power so you
so you mention
i think we totally agree marxism is a
very terrible ideology that's caused a
lot of suffering in the world
would you you would agree with not
wasting this cigar absolutely not no i
wasn't take your time please but so we
would agree with that we were pretty
anti-marxist yes
i'm very anti it's a terrible philosophy
yes i mean it's just full of holes as
you can imagine
even though all the geniuses at uh
princeton or whatever you know there's
all these marxists
that's a closed that's a club you know
if you don't have the key to the
clubhouse you're not getting in okay
they won't even talk to you
no academic will take me on will
actually start arguing even in his own
field at this point because they know
they're going to lose and they will
any academic any time
but now i yes i mean i'm i'm as uh anti
higher education cartel as as there can
be right that's the
indoctrination bills you have to look at
the entire educational system as being
one great big indoctrination factory
yeah and the people that work in it
those faculty members they're chosen
they're selected
as indoctrinators but the youth
yes and they peddle marxism but but what
i like what you just said i mean you
boiled it down even more simply you know
a lot of politics comes down to you know
well you're a socialist i'm anti-say
well yeah i'm very anti-socialist and
well you're a capitalist or this or that
but you seem to be raising some problems
with capitalism too man cannot serve two
masters well that's your kind of
capitalism one of them is uh let's say
fair capitalism then you're you're
supporting your family you're trying to
get ahead you're trying to enjoy a good
and comfortable life but you're not
forgetting about god while you do it
then you've got monopoly capitalism and
this is what libertarians and other
people sometimes forget that let's say
fair capitalism because money gravitates
it's like a black hole takes money to
make money right you got to have a bunch
once you have a bunch of it it comes
more and more easily to you
yeah i think you've got a butane i know
let me see if i can will there we go hey
how about that
not quite miraculous but good
so monopoly capitalism
is the sort of thing we call crony
capitalism crooked capitalism but it's
basically you're not just controlling
the supply side you're controlling the
markets
okay
you're told what you can buy we've
decided that everybody should be using
electric cars we're not going to sell
the other kind anymore right okay that's
monopoly capitalism because if you
control the manufacturing the industry
right if you're if you're a trade
organization or a trade association and
you control that industry you can
literally control the market
you can only buy what you have the
opportunity to buy what they're giving
you the opportunity to buy in
these days they're only giving you what
they want you to have
those are the only choices you have as a
consumer they're doing this with light
bulbs too and it drives me nuts they
tried to do it 10 years ago they they
are trying to ban incandescent light
bulbs which i find to be much more
beautiful than those ugly uh led or any
of the other light bulbs i i just in my
home i just find it warmer and more
beautiful to have and they they are
trying to outlaw well my wife agrees
with you really well we have you know
those old style incandescent bulbs in
the in the bedroom for example yeah i
even i think of my christmas tree i
don't want those little leds they're
harsh they're
ugly they're blue i want the
i want the warmer light and yet
but they do make leds by the way in
almost all frequencies these days really
you can get daylight leds okay that's
costly though i mean they're way more
expensive than an incandescent bulb
so
this this actually raises
even a different question here we've
talked about truth
we've talked about goodness
there's one more transcendental
beauty
correct where does where does beauty
factor into your thoughts about
everything
well
no here we get you know into
the ctmu there is
we all know about the monetary economy
right
you get money you buy things you know
you increase your wealth
the economy is actually telec
it's a vast favor bank
i do for you you do for me this is
actually the trading system that exists
in nature can you define the word telic
yes tel telesis it means it's a
fundamental it's the monarch substance
of which everything else is composed
okay okay another one i think some
people a physicist says well that's
energy energy is the basic substance of
which everything is mass energy right
i'm saying no you've got to go up a step
you need something more general with
other properties that for instance
accommodate information okay you need
something more general than energy to
explain that or if you want to you can
play a little semantic game and then
expand gradually expand the definition
of energy so that it takes everything in
right but i call that i call the
ultimate extension of that telesis okay
basically it's a fundamental form of
intentionality
and if you want to talk about the
intentionality of god then you're
talking about a dirty word in academia
and what is that
teleology
okay the will of god right yeah
things have a purpose that's correct yes
and so you're saying that there is this
telic aspect to the economy too
we're not just that is fundamentally the
only aspect okay money is an abstraction
of that so it's a very specified
controllable physically commoditized
version of telesis
okay and
you have a certain you know group a
certain crowd that has established a
monopoly on that now when you establish
a monopoly on money
you're actually monopolizing the teleco
economy as well
how
people invest their telesis in what can
make them money
okay
unless you're like me and you prefer
meaning in your life yeah okay
truth
all right that's what tells us is it it
encompasses not just money but truth and
meaning that uh the way that
money and the monetary economy is
manipulated
we'll uh
take into it
many more aspects of life that uh and
and maybe steer them the wrong way let
me i'll try to bring it to earth at
least in the way i was thinking about it
which is i hate i hate
modern buildings i hate them they're so
ugly drab and soviet stuff they are and
they bring me down and i i walk into
grand central a nice old building in new
york and i feel like a king and i feel
dignified and i feel like a full human
being and then i walk into that they've
actually recently tried to make it
better but imagine how you felt in the
notre dame cathedral before they burned
it down which i never got to see never
never got to go in me neither so
what is that experience like i i wonder
for someone who's just
got just this
perhaps quirk of birth where you just
have this extraordinarily high iq
is it
what is the experience of life is it is
it is it kind of funny and amusing or is
it extremely annoying somebody you know
got a little uh charge out of it got a
little amusement out of it because i
sure as hell didn't
most of the time
you know but i don't complain this is
god's world god gave me my lot
knew that i was going to go after
meaning instead of money and everything
that came after was more or less like
clockwork if you had it if you had any
say in the matter which you don't but in
which you certainly did not
would you choose to be
born very intelligent or
of middling intelligence or of low
intelligence
what do you think the answer is
i wouldn't trade my mind for anyone
else's
nobody
okay simply because i know i understand
what the difference is now
you lose your if you don't if you're not
intelligent you don't cultivate your
intelligence and make the most of it
eventually you lose sight of truth
entirely and that's what has happened to
most of these people they're adapting
you know okay we've got a narrative i'm
not going to get ahead in life unless i
accept the narrative so they accept the
narrative
it's called adaptation
okay it's artificial it's not like
natural selection you know where nature
selects you okay it's you're being
selected now by a bunch of ideologues
a bunch of people who who have who want
you to adopt a certain way of looking at
things because they have all the money
and power and they want to keep it
forever
right that's why the christian church
has fallen so so radically out of favor
with most of these people even among
certain christians
high-ranking christians yep all right it
shows up in everything they say and i
don't want to mention any particular
pope
on the other hand you're referring to a
certain uh mr francis
president vicker of christ well he he's
certainly it's he says these things that
are so puzzling and potentially uh
heretical and certain cardinals have
raised
dubia have raised doubts and said could
you please answer this it sounds like
you've said something heretical and the
answer is always well you see the papa
was a misunderstood he was a
misinterpreted in the republican news
paper and you say well you know if he
keeps being misreported and
misinterpreted
why does he keep giving the interviews
to these atheist and far leftist
journalists i don't know it's not not
mine to answer i guess exactly
and i mean this is
this is
something that i think
needs to be addressed by the catholic
church itself if it wants to stop
shedding christians right and left you
see because the you know people are not
stupid i mean
some of them can convince themselves of
things that aren't true yeah but
basically human beings are intelligent
you know and you're cheating your
intelligence when you subscribe to these
narratives
and apparently the pope you know
who communicates directly with god
he buys into these narratives and that's
a contradiction in terms
you know it it's funny you you mention
papa francesca because he's come after
the latin mass and a lot of young he
claims to have been a bouncer at one
point in his life i read that somewhere
he he doesn't
you know you look like you could be a
bouncer papa francesco does not look
like he was about i don't know do you
buy it
maybe in a really light duty nightclub
he might have made it you know what i'm
saying
certainly not in most of the ones that i
worked in
he's gone after the latin mass and i've
noticed that young
catholics i you know i fell away i was
basically an atheist for about 10 years
something that drew me there were a lot
of things that drew me back but
something that drew me back was
the latin mass and specifically the
beauty the smells and the bells and the
idea that the priest is facing the altar
and we're all facing together and he's
leading us in our worship of god and
it's not just uh you know acoustic
guitar is and feel good and be a nice
person to you know and making it all
about us
in the sense of the sacred the sense of
the sacred and
and a sense of the the beautiful it's
why i asked that question about the role
of beauty in your
in in your ideas once again a function
of the telec economy okay
basically
it's synonymous with teleology
something cannot be anti-teleological or
deviate from the will of god and still
be objectively beautiful
all right
i mean there are people who will take
who can take a religious icon or a
picture
of jesus christ for example and urinate
on it
yeah right larry david i mean i don't
know yeah or even there was the famous
picture piss christ right it was a pic
it was a photograph of a crucifix that's
disgusting this is disgusting it was
funded by the federal government
i think it received funding for that i
believe it was it received some amount
of funding from i could be getting this
wrong so don't quote me but i thought it
was the national endowment for arts or
one of those organizations
really
i thought so i couldn't i could be wrong
but that's bad
real bad
so
i don't know what to say in defense of
these people i don't think there is a
defense for them
okay but if that's the kind of thing
that they regard as art then they are
not in touch with beauty and the reason
they're not in touch with beauty is that
they're not in touch with truth but i
thought i thought i was told by all my
modern teachers that beauty is in the
eye of the beholder it's a subjective
thing and it's not objective it is but
unfortunately some beholders leave
something to be desired
in their aesthetic sense you're saying
there is an objective standard
yes absolutely is it consistent with
teleology or is it not
right obviously you know
basically you've got this identity god
who is perfection anything that deviates
from that cannot by definition be good
or beautiful
okay now nature experiments i mean it
goes from one thing to another and tries
certain certain things out but once it
becomes evident that something isn't
working then it's not consistent with
teleology once it proves to be
degenerate and causes the you know
people to become demoralized and sick of
life yeah then we have to do away with
it
i've been told that
we need to tolerate also you know all
sorts of god does not tolerate evil and
neither should we
it's a beautiful way to put it
so what do you make of the modern right
you know the modern left is always
pushing this stuff but the modern a lot
of the modern right says look there was
there was a prominent columnist who
called himself conservative i guess he
sort of was for a while but now he's
pretty firmly on the left and he said
we i don't like drag queen story hour
but we need to tolerate it it's one of
the blessings of liberty if we don't
tolerate drag queen story hour what yes
a blessing of liberty well it's an or
look it's in the preamble to the
constitution i think james madison's
rolling over in his grave at the very
thought of that constitution mentions
does it
not in my last round i mean you know i
was raised in an environment where we
were you know basically taught to be
tolerant of of you know people of their
foibles and and you know their if they
wanted to be a little bit deviant well a
little bit of deviation is good you know
you can't just be locked into one rigid
way of looking at things so i developed
tolerance but now they've become
militant they've become rabid they're
shoving it down children's throats and
it's just not good for society okay
it violates the biological imperative
of survival okay
to to become totally sexual there's a
reason that men and women exist and that
they that they mate and create children
it's for the survival of the human race
okay
that has to remain paramount that's got
to be the preferred mode of existence
okay you've got to buy into that now if
you want to be if you want to deviate a
little bit in your private life and
you've got
somebody you know who agrees to be
deviant along those lines and you want
to get together in the privacy of your
own abode
you're not going to have chris lange and
knocking on their door i'm not gonna
knock on their door it's none of my
business it's for them to work out with
god almighty okay and if they can do
that more power to them i don't know how
they're gonna do it but
give them a chance okay
but when they go out and they have gay
day parades where they're cavorting you
know nude and they're going into
children's restrooms and so forth that's
where we have to draw the line
you see
i mentioned this modern writer who's who
is very misguided on this particular
point
are there
thinkers alive today
who you think are worth reading people
always say what's the reading list what
should i read what should i listen to
are there philosophers or
popular right there are no academic
philosophers that are worthy as far as
i'm concerned of attention what about
now not because all of them are stupid
or anything like that it's because
they've bought into the party they're
academics yeah okay they cannot
violate you know the the academic
communistic atheistic narrative and get
away with it
okay and if you're in that system then
obviously you're playing along with it
and you can't do that and be an honest
truthful philosopher are there are there
non-academic
writers thinkers philosophers who you
would recommend people read
i'm sure they're out there i haven't
encountered any not recently what about
okay so that gets rid of the living
people what about uh those dead guys
all those old dead guys going back to
ancient greece or anywhere in the middle
a lot of those guys had something very
useful to say who if uh if a listener
right now said i want to know
who
beyond beyond his own writing who uh the
smartest man in the world wants me to
read
who would you recommend
well i would say that you should go back
and definitely read aristotle and plato
and socrates okay start with that and
then go up and then you know work your
way through there a lot of smart guys
read the platinus read about
neoplatonism right and once you find out
about neoplatonism then you can go back
to the ancient vedic religion right
because it's basically the same thing in
different language
and as you know then neoplatonism kind
of became a mainstay of medieval
christianity
okay and there's a lot to that so
those you've got that takes us up
through you know it takes us up through
some of the the medieval christian
philosophers and psalm aquinas augustine
and
beyond that then it starts getting dicey
you see i mean even when you get up to
like rene descartes for example
everything it becomes dualistic
you know you've got these cartesian
spaces that more or less exclude the
observer there are no images of god in a
cartesian space
you know uh chris have you ever because
you worked at bars you ever hear about
the horse who shows up to the bar and
asks the bartender for a drink and the
bartender says horse man you've been
here every night this week i think
you're an alcoholic
and the horse says
i don't think i am
poof the horse disappears
now you see you will understand this
this is a joke about descartes who says
i think therefore i am but if i had told
you that part first i would have put
descartes before the horse
i like it this is the only
circumstance in which that joke has ever
landed i really i'm really pleased i
finally got a laugh out of that joke
that's a very intelligent joke
much more intelligent than the ones i
usually hear
well
especially in a bar
that that at least i can believe that so
i'm
that digression aside i'm glad you bring
this up because people always ask me
they say what philosophy should i read
one why you asking me but two they
always say should i read john locke
should i read rousseau should i read the
john rawls should i read this that and i
say
maybe focus a little earlier first and
it's funny you mentioned once you get up
to aquinas
after him things start to go a little
like
a little south yeah
yeah until now of course all of that is
completely out of fashion
and most of these modern philosophers
are
you know they're they're really you know
frankfurt school to people and that's
cultural marxism which of course is
just the social program of the marxists
but but chris even though i just wrote a
book last year on cultural marxism i
have been told reliably informed by
wikipedia that's just a crazy conspiracy
theory
yes well wikipedia seems to think i'm a
crazy conspiracy theory too you read my
biography there
not recently
everything bad that you can say you know
basically i was exiled from wikipedia
years ago i went in and said no wait a
minute here no i'm not an intelligent
design creationist per se i have a
different approach to teleology and all
that and i was immediately kicked off
wikipedia
okay so i can't they can say whatever
they want to in my biography in
wikipedia there's not a thing i can do
about it because you even suggested the
idea of some sort of intelligent design
that is correct well i've been getting
trolled ever since around the year
two thousand well it goes back further
than that really but but
when i went on national television and
said well
the the existence of god is actually
amenable to logical analysis and you can
show that there is a god provided you
have the right that was enough
intelligent design creationists get out
of here
so i've been you know then these people
are by the way these new atheists i mean
they're really
they're adamant you're talking about uh
richard dawkins daniel down talking
about richie dawkins daniel dennis sam
harris well i don't know chris kitchens
you know i mean guys of this nature uh
you know
whose myers
p z meyers and people like that i had a
running with myers i mean he asked my
guts he hated my guts 20 years ago
none of them will mention my name out
now though because they know that they
can be crushed
deep down inside they know they won't
come anywhere near me at some point
these people decided that they had to
exclude anybody who could beat them
okay
that's where the cancellation thing
began really
it's a new atheist thing and now since
the new atheists are a lot more
fashionable than christians are that's
that's the order of the day i blame my
falling away from the church on just
being a punk 13 year old boy but but the
second thing i blame is the new atheists
they were very popular at the time and i
was uh very taken with them chris
hitchen he's a funny guy i thought okay
he must be a smart excellent speaker
yeah you know incisive witty but
obviously he just hates god i mean he
makes that very clear so
you're all religions are evil because
they mislead people and drag people away
from you know but you didn't you didn't
just say that he doesn't believe in god
you said he hates god hates god dawkins
obviously hates god why is there evil in
the world usually yeah that's what it
comes down to right right
would it would it just god
tolerate all of the evil that is
occurring in the world
you know the fact of the matter is there
can be there can be no good there can be
no pleasure without pain there can be no
good without evil okay god knows that
there is always the possibility
to commit evil
free will right right but he has given
us free will
okay he bequeathed that where his images
he is free therefore we are free and he
expects us
to fight against evil but so stop it
from trying to care
then given will and the fact that you
use these words hate and love
very often when people talk about god
it's it's as though it were some
academic exercise well does god do i
believe in god do i but you're you're
you're using verbs that are more active
than that
hate and love do you think that
do you think that our discussion or our
understanding of god therefore must be
uh
active and participatory rather than
merely
absolutely and furthermore it must be
rational as well as faith-based a lot of
religionists are fideistic which means
they rely completely on faith and say
that we can have no knowledge of god
wasn't that nonsense yeah okay
you have to know what you got faith in
yeah okay how can you invest faith in
something that you don't know what it is
you need at least an elementary
description of it before you can
predicate
before you can attribute faith to it
before you can invest belief in it all
right if you invest belief in x but you
don't know what x is is that meaningful
obviously not
so faith and rationality are indelibly
coupled okay
there's there's just no other way to
talk about it yeah as soon as you hear
somebody say well it's entirely a matter
of faith and we can believe whatever we
want to have faith in whatever we want
to that makes no sense at all to me i
totally agree with that and it does
bother me when religious people speak in
that way in modern times it's funny
though you mentioned thomas aquinas was
there ever a more rational guy in the
world than tom the guy wrote to every
question in religion he had
three objections and then answers to the
objections quite irrational we've gone
to another aristotle and i mean that you
know just
and all these but all of these early
christian philosophers are now out of
fashion nobody pays attention anymore so
no except christians right real real
ones not fake ones practicing ones yeah
so then
i know i've kept all of your time but i
don't care darn it you're here in
nashville and i've got a lot i'm just
fine
do you have religious practice
uh there is
yes uh well let's just put it this way i
don't
currently
attend church um but up until uh
several years i started doing like my
own kind of like
thing with preaching right so i i
decided that i didn't but i was for
about
10 15 years i went to a little
country church up the road from us
right now i live on a road where there
used to be three historic churches two
of them were burned down
arson
not not accidental not accidental no and
they were historical you know civil war
era
churches okay but one was left
right and it was it was north of us
about two and a half miles north of us
on route p there so i attended that
church
pretty religiously very regularly for a
long time
now as it happened the last thing that i
heard is run by a
wonderful lady that actually takes care
of most of what goes on there and it's
got a good pastor
uh right but uh you know i finally
decided that okay
what i have to do is go out and start
talking about these things myself
so since then that's what i've been
doing
i wish you were here on a sunday i could
take you to my good latin mass parish
here i think you would like it i was
twice baptized to catholic way back when
but it's like i say i don't
i was i was a kid
one of my aunts was a nun aunt sybil
right
so you know i have some fond memories of
what it's like to be a real catholic
but i don't think that that kind of
catholicism is
in vogue it's it's certain it's
certainly not invoked yeah
when uh young people are searching for
meaning
as you say you looked for meaning in
your life it reminds me of victor frankl
right man search for meaning says search
for meaning is
man's primary motivator more than sex
more than
anything else and that's the way it
should be yeah but that's not the way it
is anymore they just want the money they
won't even believe that you're
intelligent if you don't have a lot of
money right right
but people always ask you this why
aren't you a billionaire
why why aren't i billionaires people i
appeal i've seen people billionaires
hate my guts
see
i don't i don't go along with the
look
they have to give you the opportunity to
make money you need to have connections
in order to make money you need to make
friends out of people who have a lot of
it if you if you had the connections
would you have striven to make money
not at the expense of truth no i'd have
gone after meaning first now i used to
think that well it should be possible in
theory to go after
both
then i discovered that that wasn't
necessarily true
if you go after truth too hard then
you're going to make a bad impression
on mammon on the people with all the
money yeah and eventually you're going
to be
canceled
out of uh any sort of a comfortable life
and isn't there is also just a time
issue right i mean
if you dedicate yourself to
i don't know doing spreadsheets or
something
you're probably not going to have a ton
of time to pursue truth or am i wrong
about that am i just underestimating you
you're absolutely right
you know eventually that's what you
become you know
we are what we do more or less so you've
got to make up your mind what you want
to spend your time doing
and it's it's i consider it to be better
to seek truth and meaning and god than
it is to pursue money
now who agrees with me these days
not many i'd like to have it all but i i
certainly i would like to bring mankind
back to the point where we care about
those things again because of course
then the question is
you know if if you
if you
just focus your life on money just for
money's sake just to get stuff
you know you're you can't take it with
you
eventually that's that all that stuff is
going to decline well yes of course it
is but a lot of these rich people are
into something called transhumanism
they don't think that they're going to
have to leave so there's no problem with
not being able to take it with you
because you're not going anywhere you're
going to upload your consciousness to a
computer you see i've i've heard this
it's a very popular idea
a lot of my young friends will tell me
michael we might not even die we're as
though as though every generation in
history hasn't had the same delusion but
it's all i i always laugh at it
but but very wealthy very powerful
ostensibly intelligent people take this
seriously we're just going to upload our
best
intelligence
that's an important uh
caveat
you
you don't think we're just going to
upload our brains to the cloud or
something
you know that's what reality already is
that's we've already done it
self-simulation we've already done it we
are living in the display of a s of a
simulation a self-simulating universe
right
and we are going to be uploaded when
we're done with this simulation we're
going to be
uploaded to the source of all truth
meaning and power
then
depending on the decision that is made
by that entity we can be redistributed
to another universe a heaven a hell a
new creation
pardon me a new creation brad the idea
of the resurrection of the body right
that is correct so
before
before these uh
genius gazillionaires who fancy that
they're going to upload their brains to
the
ibm computer or something before they
meet their particular judgment before
they shuffle off this mortal coil do you
think there's any chance that they're
going to figure out the secret and not
have to face death no
no way it's like i say soros is probably
the best among them and he's way he's
far
you you know how it is i mean i i guess
the hindus had a better way of looking
at this you know in chris in
christianity there's there's one goal
salvation okay
in hinduism there are four goals okay
you've got kama art the dharma and
moksha right and kama is sensual
pleasure
right
and artha is
is being able to
acquire wealth and power
then you've got dharma which is
righteousness and then above dharma
you've got moksha which is salvation
that's actual union with the absolute or
with god okay the people running the
world right now all of these people that
you just mentioned
are stuck in numbers one and two they
haven't made it to dharma and they're
never going to make it to moksha that's
why they want to upload their
consciousness to a machine
they know that god isn't going to take
them back if they continue doing what
they're doing all right so they want to
displace reality itself by recreating
reality in a mechanical form that then
they can control
do you think there's any relation
between the transhumanist movement and
the transgender movement
the idea that we're just going to escape
our bodies
[Music]
i do the the idea
the idea i think
is that you can throw off all constraint
you can throw off the constraints of
reality you construe the including
constraints of gender
that's what i think the commonality is
and i think these are
you know
they're anti-teleological both of them i
agree but we do have certain constraints
you know reality is full of constraints
and we're better off recognizing what
they are
before i let you go
as we sit here in the clouds
and some simulation of the clouds here
before i let you go people are going to
be asking
so what do i do
what should i do right now
assuming we're not going to launch the
american or this second american
revolution or anything like that
what should i do in my own life even
even maybe beyond any political
questions search for god
ask god to establish a personal
relationship with you
it's available you're attached to god by
your soul okay there's this soul that
attaches you to god
you can receive
the will of god into yourself
and to some extent the power of god into
yourself but you've got to be receptive
if you're not receptive then you're
cutting yourself off from god
okay and once you do that then you do
not share the identity of reality itself
and you're done
once your physical body expires there is
nothing that will carry you because you
have denied it and rejected it
you follow me
that's what people need to do i do i
think that's good advice
i'm glad you agree
that's good for you
it is it's good it's sort of like
reaching out and grabbing do this do
that search for god that's so this is
though to shake the audience uh chris
this has been
a true pleasure
thank you for coming out thank you for
making the trek
well it's been my pleasure i don't
travel very often you know i've told you
the reasons for that
but i'm glad i made this trip michael
thank you chris